# Maven
## Table of Contents
## Tips
- sysout means System.out.println, I'm lazy.

## Introduction
### What the hell is maven anyway
Isn't maven the name of a wrestler who was in ECW?
No, that's Raven, Maven was in WWE. <br/>

Wait what? <br/>

**Anyway** <br/>
Maven is a Project management tool, it's used to Build management and dependencies.

**I don't understand** <br/>
When we develop an app, we usually need external libraries and JAR files, like Spring JAR files, Hibernate files, etc., that's a problem.

So far we solved that problem by simply downloading the JAR files from each project's website, then add them to the classpath.

But there's another, easier, and more accurate solution. Maven can do this process. 

Maven is like a personal shopper, we give it a list of stuff and maven goes to buy that stuff and brings it back.

We write our "shopping list" of dependencies to Maven, then Maven will:
- Download the files of the dependencies.
- Pull it to my computer.

**How does it do that?** <br/>
- Maven reads the shopping list, which is a config file.
- Maven checks a local repository for the dependencies.
- If they're not present, then Maven goes to the internet to a Maven Central Repository.
- Then it downloads the needed files and save them in the local repositoru.
- Then, when we build and run our app, Maven will handle the class/build path for us, it will add the appropriate JAR files accordingly.

Also, maven downloads the dependencies needed by the dependencies we need.
For example, we tell Maven that we need  Spring, Maven will also know that Spring needs other things like Commons logging, so Maven downloads Both.

i.e. Maven downloads everything we need.

**But wait! There's more!** <br/>
If you as a developer go into a project that is already being developed, you may be confused by the directory structure but you have to conform to it.

If many newcomers come along, that will be a problem.

Maven solves this by providing a standard directory structure.

So, newcomers can easily find code, prop files, unit tests, web files, etc.

***Note:*** most major IDEs support Maven i.e. Maven projects are portable.

You can easily share projects between IDEs, the developers in one team don't have to standardize a particular IDE, everyone can work on the IDE they prefer.

Once you learn Maven, you can join a project and be productive, because there is very minimal configuration done by you, Maven does all the work, and you can work immediately on the project on your machine.

## The Maven Shopping List - POM file
The shopping list we give to Maven so that it gets the required dependencies is called a POM file, it's an XML file that resides in the root of any project.

POM file: Project Object Model file.

Structure:
- Project meta data: info about the project, like:
    - Name
    - Version number.
    - Output file type.
    - Project coordinates: info that uniquely identify the project (an address to find your project from anywhere in the world), like:
        - groupId: name of company, organization, etc. (the first part of the package name, or the reverse of the organization's domain name i.e. com.luv2code).
        - artifactId: the name of the project. (the immediately next name of the package name)
        - version: the release version number, we can also specify that it's a dev version, not a release version.
- Dependencies: the actual list of dependencies we need, we add the project coordinates of each dependency.
    - We get the project coordinates from:
        - the project page itself.
        - visit http://search.maven.org (The maven central repo), this is the easiest approach.
        - Visit https://mvnrepository.com
- Plugins: Additional custom tasks to run, like:
    - Generate unit test reports.
    - etc.

## Maven Archetypes
A Maven Archetype is a collection of starter files used to create new projects, since projects differ in nature, Maven has different "types" of starter files for each type of project, these are Archetypes.

So, if we open Maven, and open the File menu -> New Maven Project, a list will open with archetypes in them.

We select one of them, and choose Create or whatever.

Then, a folder structure will be created, with the POM file, starter files, config files, etc.

This is an archetype.

Examples are:
- maven-archetype-quickstart: an archetype to create a sample Maven project, good for standalone projets.
- maven-archetype-webapp: an archetypes for web projects.
- go to http://maven.apache.org/archetypes to check for more.


**Quickstart Archetype** <br/>
A very simple archetype that generates three things:
- pom.xml
- src/main/java/App.java (a basic app)
- src/test/java/AppTest.java (a basic unit test)

**Webapp Archetype** <br/>
A simple archetype for web apps, it generates these:
- pom.xml
- src/main/webapp/index.jsp (a basic jsp file)
- src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml (a basic config file)

## Practical Maven Work
Eclipse supports Maven, there's a plugin called m2eclipse that can be installed in Eclipse so that we don't have to download and install Maven separately.

### Creating a Quickstart Project
Let's try it:
- Open eclipse.
- Open the menu Help -> Install New Software... -> what is already installed? 
    - if the list contains m2e and m2e-wtp, we're good to go, skip the next sub-steps.
    - If not, go to the previous screen (install new software...).
    - Click Add...
    - In the Name, enter "m2e update site"
    - Check the box next to "Maven Integration for Eclipse".
    - Next, Next, Accept license agreement, Finish.
    - Restart Eclipse.
    - Check the "already installed" list for the m2e and m2e-wtp to verify installation.

- Now, create a new project in File -> New -> Other.
- Type in the filter "Maven" (or scroll down to the folder Maven and open it), and select "Maven project".
- Next, next.
- Now the list of archetypes is visible, choose the quickstart.
- Type in the filter "quickstart", select the only archetype that's visible, choose Next.
- Now we create the project coordinates, enter the info (or any other info you want):
    - Group Id: com.luv2code
    - Artifact Id: mycoolapp
    - Version: 1.0
- Finish.

**pom.xml** <br/>
- Double click on pom.xml in eclipse.
- You'll see a nice graphical view displaying the project's info, and there are tabs for dependencies and plugins.
- Also, check the pom.xml tab to see the actual source code of the pom.xml i.e. the xml.

**Java Version Problem** <br/>
- You'll notice that in the directory tree to the left, the JRE System Library's version is 1.5.
- To fix this, open the pom.xml source code.
- Go to the element Properties, above the element Dependencies.
- Inside the Properties element, add this: (Example: you're using Java 8)
``` xml
<maven.compiler.target>1.8</maven.compiler.target>
<maven.compiler.source>1.8</maven.compiler.source>
```
- Then, right click on the project -> Maven -> Update Project, select your project, check all checkboxes (Update, Refresh, Clean) at the bottom, then Ok.

Done ^_^ <br/>


### Creating a Webapp Project
- Switch to Java EE perspective.
- Create a new Maven Project.
- Select the maven-archetype-webapp archetype.
- Set the project coordinates.
- You'll see an error already on the project directory xD
- That's because there's a dependency that's missing for the created index.jsp file.
- Open the pom.xml, go to the dependencies element.
- There is no dependency about javax.servlet, which is needed by the jsp file.
- So, we need to add that.
- Go to a browser, open the central maven repository (link is above).
- Search for javax.servlet-api, when you find it, in the Latest Version column choose "all".
- Choose the version 3.1.0.
- Scroll down to Apache Maven, copy the xml underneath it.
- Back to eclipse, pom.xml, paste it inside the Dependencies element.
- The error is gone ^_^
- Now you can run the app just like Spring MVC, on Tomcat and it'll display the index.jsp file.

## Maven Repositories
+ There are two main repos:
    - Local: In windows, it's located in c:\Users\<your user name>\.m2\repository
    - Central: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/
        - Maven downloads files from there then puts them in the local repo for further use.

+ There are other third-party repos that can connect to Maven, like the one we saw earlier: https://mvnrepository.com.
    - Problem is, now we need to tell Maven to search in repos other than the central repo.

**How to add repos to Maven**
Example dependency: atlassian mail.
- Atlassian mail is hosted on Atlassian repo.
- Go to the website, search for the package, search for it and see the repo it's hosted on, click the version.
- Then, scroll down to Maven tab, copy the Dependency xml part and paste it in the pom.xml in the Dependencies element, just like before.
- An error will show up: missing artifact.
- That's because we NEED to add the Atlassian repo to the pom.xml file.

- Under the Depencies element, Create a new xml element (if not created already) called Repositories "<repositories>"
- Inside it, another element "<repository>".
- Inside it, this info:
``` xml
<id>atlassian</id>
<name>atlassian repo</name>
<url></url>
```
- In mvnrepository's tab we opened earlier, just below the Maven tab, you'll find the url of the Atlassian repo.
- Copy it and paste it in the <url/> element we wrote in the pom.xml file.
- The final pom.xml file looks like this:
``` xml
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/maven-v4_0_0.xsd">
	<modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
	<groupId>com.luv2code</groupId>
	<artifactId>mycoolwebapp</artifactId>
	<packaging>war</packaging>
	<version>1.0</version>
	<name>mycoolwebapp Maven Webapp</name>
	<url>http://maven.apache.org</url>
	<dependencies>

		<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.atlassian.mail/atlassian-mail -->
		<dependency>
			<groupId>com.atlassian.mail</groupId>
			<artifactId>atlassian-mail</artifactId>
			<version>4.0.4</version>
		</dependency>

		<dependency>
			<groupId>junit</groupId>
			<artifactId>junit</artifactId>
			<version>3.8.1</version>
			<scope>test</scope>
		</dependency>

		<dependency>
			<groupId>javax.servlet</groupId>
			<artifactId>javax.servlet-api</artifactId>
			<version>3.1.0</version>
		</dependency>

	</dependencies>

	<repositories>
		<repository>
			<id>atlassian</id>
			<name>atlassian repo</name>
			<url>https://maven.atlassian.com/content/repositories/atlassian-public/</url>
		</repository>

	</repositories>
	<build>
		<finalName>mycoolwebapp</finalName>
	</build>
</project>
```
- Go to the local maven repo in your file system, in "com", you'll find a new folder "atlassian", containind the dependencies from the Atlassian repo, downloaded by Maven, with minimal work from us :) <br/>

## Maven Private Repositories
- You can set up a private Maven repo, with security credentials and everything.
- To do that, Either:
    - Set up a Maven server, choose one of these:
        - Archiva from Apache: archiva.apache.org
        - Artifactory from JFrog: www.jfrog.com
        - Nexus from Sonatype(The most commonly used one): www.sonatype.com
    - Try a cloud-hosted solution:
        - www.packagecloud.io
        - www.mymavenrepo.com
        - search google for some more.

# We are Done
And that is all gentleman, thank you and good night :)