# Spring Boot

## Table of Contents

## Tips
- sysout means System.out.println, I'm lazy.
- We'll use Maven for this section, so check out the Maven notes.
- This is not a theoretical reference for Spring Boot, this is a practical approach to it, for a reference see:
https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot

## Introduction
### So what is the problem here?
Building a Spring app is hard because it contains a lot of decisions to make. <br/>
- which maven archetype to use,
- which maven dependencies to use,
- how do I set up config, xml or java,
- which server to install and how to install it,
etc. <br/>

And these are just the basics, if we dig deeper we'll find tons of configurations to do, which is very error-prone.

This is where Spring Boot comes in. <br/>

**What is Spring Boot?** <br/>
It's a project that's built on Spring that provides many benefits:
- performs auto-configuration,
- helps resolve dependency conflicts in Maven or Gradle projects (Gradle is another build tool), and
- provides an embedded server to run on, so now there's no need to install a server separately.

**Running and Deploying Spring Boot apps**<br/>
WE can run our app from an IDE or command-line as a JAR file, it'll start the embedded server and run the app on the server. <br/>

Also, Spring supports WAR files, we can deploy our app as a WAR file, where our code only will be included in the WAR file, without the embedded server. <br/>

**FAQ Spring Boot** <br/>
Q: Does Spring Boot replace other Spring technologies e.g. Core, AOP, MVC, REST, etc.?
A: No, it uses those technologies in the background, and we write normal Spring code. <br/>

Q: Does Spring Boot run faster than normal Spring code?
A: No, Spring Boot makes it easier to get started in Development, but it uses the same code as Spring. <br/>

Q: Do I need a special IDE for Spring Boot?
A: No, you can use any IDE or text editor, you can make use of the Spring Tool Suite (STS), a collection of IDE plugins provided by the Spring team to help development in Spring, but is not required.


**Spring Initializer** <br/>
Spring boot provides a Spring initializer, a website where we go to it, select dependencies, and it will create a Maven/Gradle project where we can download it and import it in our IDE.

Spring Initializer: http://start.spring.io <br/>
- Go to the website, you'll find it very easy to use, do your stuff and select Generate.
- A .rar file will be downloaded, unzip it and put the unzipped folder anywhere you want.
- Open Eclipse, in the File Menu, import  and Existing Maven Project, select the folder you unzipped.
- It'll appear on your IDE, with a lot of files and a main app in src/main/java, inside it there are some code, run this app as a JAVA APP, not on a server.
- Notice that the output log will have "Tomcat started", this is the embedded server in Spring Boot :)

### Developing a REST Controller on Spring Boot
In the project we created, we'll create a simple REST controller that says:
```
"Hello World!, Time on Server: <time on server/>"
```

Creating a REST controller is very easy:
- Create a new package "com.luv2code.mycoolapp.rest"
- Create this class:
``` Java
@RestController 
public class myRESTController {
	@GetMapping("/")
    public String sayHello() {
        return "Hello World!, Time on Server: " + LocalDateTime.now();
    }
}
```

Run the main app in src/main/java/com.luv2code.mycoolapp. <br/>
Then open a browser, go to localhost:8080, see the result :) <br/>

If you used Tomcat before, you know the port problems and the annoying stuff we had to deal with, now we don't have to, thanks to the embedded server :'D <br/>

Also, we didn't have to add any dependencies to Maven, that's a life saver :'D <br/>

### The Structure of a Spring Boot Project
Spring Boot uses Maven directory structure, and there are other files:
- mvnw: Maven Wrapper files, they allow us to run Maven projects without installing Maven or having it present on your path, also they download the correct version of Maven if it isn't already downloaded.
    + mvnw.cmd: for MS Windows.
    _ mvnw.sh: for Linux/Mac.
    They have stuff like mvn clean compile test, etc.

- pom.xml: the usual maven pom file, with additional stuff. 
    + in the dependencies element you'll find some dependencies added by spring Boot, they're all in the groupId org.springframework.boot.
    + plugins to package an executable JAR or WAR file.

- src/main/resources/application.properties: this file can be used to add Spring Boot properties, and then injected normally, like:
    + "server.port=9001" to change the default port that Spring boot runs on.
    + Custom properties, like "coach.name", like the properties file we created way back in Spring Core.

- src/main/resources/static: here we put HTML files, CSS, JS, images, etc. and they are auto-loaded.
- src/main/resources/templates: templates are saved and loaded from here, Spring Boot includes auto-config for template engines like:
    - FreeMarker.
    - Thymeleaf.
    - Mustache.

- src/test: where the unit tests reside.

**WARNING** <br/>
If your app will be packaged as JAR, ***DO NOT USE*** THE src/main/webapp directory.
It works only with WAR packaging, and is silently ignored by most build tools if you generate a JAR.
**Trust me**, you'll spend many, many hours trying to solve this issue.

### Java Source Code
We saw a new annotation #SpringBootApplication, this annotation:
- enables auto-config support for spring boot,
- enables component scanning,
- able to register beans with @Bean or import other config classes.

Basically, this annotation is like using the fusion card from yu-gi-oh to combine @ComponentScan, @Configuration, and @EnableAutoConfiguration.

**Some practices in Spring Boot code** <br/>
The best practice is to place the Main app class in the root package, above other packages, why?
- Allows leveraging of default component scanning.
- No need to reference the base package name.

If we have other packages outside the root package, we need to specify the base packages to scan in the annotation @SpringBootApplication, like this:
``` java
@SpringBootApplication("com.luv2code.springbootdemo.mycoolapp",
"org.acme.iot.utils",
"edu.cmu.wean")
```

## Spring Boot Starters
As we know, the question of which Maven dependencies are needed, is a hard question to answer.

We needed to add dependencies manually in the pom.xml file, which is error-prone.

One great solution is *Spring Boot Starters*.

**What is that?** <br/>
A collection of Maven dependencies group together, which are tested and verified by the Spring team, makes it much easier to get started development in Spring, and reduces the amount of Maven dependency configuration. 

To add the Spring Boot Starter for web, we just add this dependency (You don't need to add it, wait to know why):
``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>
```
This dependencies has other dependencies like json, tomcat, hibernate, etc.

(here's why) We don't even need to add this dependency manually, it's already added because we just use Spring Initializer to add it.

So, there are 30+ Spring Boot Starters created by the Spring team, like:
- spring-boot-starter-web
- spring-boot-starter-security: adds security.
- spring-boot-starter-data-jpa: DB support with JPA and hibernate.

and many others, check this link out:
www.luv2code.com/spring-boot-starters

To know what's in one of these starters, you can:
- Look at the starter's pom.xml file (which is hard), or:
- Use the IDE, most IDEs have a dependency view feature, to do this in Eclipse:
    + open the pom.xml file,
    + select the tab Dependency Hierarchy,
    + Expand the desired starter,
    + You'll see a list of what's inside.

**Spring Boot Starter Parent** <br/>
A special starter that provides Maven defaults e.g. java version, utf-8, etc.
Also, its version is inherited by all other dependencies, so we don't need to explicitly list the version of each dependency.

## Spring Boot Dev Tools and Actuator
### Dev Tools
The problem, every time we change the source code, we need to restart the app.

spring-boot-devtools is an additional dependency that auto-restarts our app when the code is updated.

We just need to add it to our pom file:
``` xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-devtools</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

Steps:
1. Add the dependency to the pom file.
2. Change the code to see the devtools effects.

### Actuator
The problem, how can we monitor and manage our app, check its status, see some metrics, etc. ?

Spring Boot Actuator is a dependency that exposes endpoints to monitor and manage the app.

These endpoints are prefixed with /actuator, some are:
- /health: checks the status of the app
- /info
- /beans: list of beans
- /mappings: list of request mappings
etc.

For the full list of endpoints:
www.luv2code.com/actuator-endpoints

By default, only /health and /info are exposed, to expose the rest, add this to the properties file:
```
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=*
```
We can also specify which endpoints to explose by a comma-delimited list.

For the info endpoint, we need to add the details in the application.properties file.

Same as Devtools, we just add the dependency and it'll work:
``` xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

**Wait, what about security? xD** <br/>
The info exposed by the actuator should not be exposed to everyone xD <br/>

So, we need to add Spring Security dependency, it'll prompt for a username and password in order to access those endpoints.

Defaults:
- user: user
- pass: check the log when the app starts for the generated password.

To override those defualts, in the application.properties:
```
spring.security.user.name=scott
spring.security.user.password=tiger
```

We can customize Spring Security just like we learned before, we can use a database for roles, encrypted password, etc. 

we can exclude endpoints like this:
```
management.endpoints.web.exposure.exclude=health,info
```
Since health and info are exposed by default, we need to do this if we want to lock them.

For more details, check the actuator documentation:
www.luv2code.com/actuator-docs

Steps:
1. Add security dependency to pom file.
2. Verify it for /mappings.
3. Disable /health and /info endpoints.
4. Verify that /health and /info are now disabled.

**Step 1** <br/>
Add the dependency in the pom file.
``` xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-security</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

**Step 2** <br/>
Restart the app and check the logs for the default password.

Now, go to localhost:8080/actuator/mappings
Check that you are prompted for a user and password.

Use the user 'user' and the generated password to log in.

**Step 3** <br/>
Add this to the application.properties file:
```
management.endpoints.web.exposure.exclude=health,info
```

**Step 4** <br/>
Go to localhost:8080/actuator/health or /info, check that you get a 404 error or any error, it doesn't load. (No need to restart the app, thanks to devtools)

## Running Spring Boot From the Command Line
We can run Spring Boot apps from the CLI, since they are self-contained and no need for a server.

***Note:*** If you already have Maven installed, you can replace any "mvnw" command with "mvn" i.e. use your Maven.

First, we need to package our app:
``` sh
$ mvnw package
```

Then, to run it, we have two options:
1. Using normal java
``` sh
>> java -jar
```

2. Using spring boot maven plugin:
Remember the mvnw files? We'll kinda use them.
``` sh
$ mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Steps:
1. Go to the directory of the project, open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Package the app using:
``` sh
$ mvnw package
```
or mvn instead of mvnw if you already have Maven installed.

2. Run it using both methods.

## Spring Boot App Properties
We know the application.properties file, which is the file we'll use to avoid hard coding.

Steps:
1. Define custom properties in the file.
2. Inject them with the @Value annotation, just like normal field injection.

## Spring Boot Properties
We can actually configure Spring Boot itself using t he application.properties file.
We can set properties like:
- server port,
- context path,
- acutator,
- security,
and over 1000 more properties!

List of common properties:
www.luv2code.com/spring-boot-properties

The properties are grouped in categories:
- Core: logging levels, logging output, etc.
- Web: server port, context path, server timeout, etc.
- Security: user and pass for actuator endpoints, etc.
- Data: jdbc url for database, user and pass for db, etc.
- Actuator: which endpoints to include/exclude, base path (/actuator can be changed), etc.
- Integration
- Devtools
- Testing

Steps:
1. In the properties file, configure the server port, make it 7070.
```
server.port=7070
```
2. Change the application context path.
```
server.servlet.context-path=/mycoolapp
```
3. go to localhost:7070/mycoolapp, you should see the app running :)

## Spring Boot REST API Project
### Spring Boot REST API Project With Hibernate
We'll create a CRUD REST API Spring Boot project that connects to a DB.

Requirements:
- REST API for Employee directory.
- Clients can:
    + Get a list of employees. (GET)
    + Get a single employee by ID. (GET)
    + Add, (POST) update, (PUT) and delete (DELETE) an employee.

Steps:
1. Set up DB.
2. Create spring boot project.
3. Get list of employees.
4. Get one employee.
5. Add an employee.
6. Update an employee.
7. Delete an employee.

#### Setting Up The Environment
**Setting up the DB** <br/>
Visit http://luv2code.com/spring-boot-employee-sql-script, a zip file will be downloaded, unzip it to find a sql script. <br/>
Open the MySQL Workbench and log in to your DB. <br/>
Run the downloaded script. <br/>
Refresh the schema to see the new table </br>

**Generating the project** <br/>
Go to https://start.spring.io/, start a new project. <br/>
In the dependencies, select Spring Web, Spring Data JPA, Spring Boot DevTools, and MySQL Driver. <br/>
Download and import the project in Eclipse. <br/>

**Configuring the datasource in Spring Boot** <br/>
Now, we'll get to the actual development :) <br/>
First, we'll create the DAO. To do this we need to set up Hibernate config and give it a data source. 

But we won't do it like before, because Spring Boot will auto-config the data source for us :) we just need to give it url, user, and pass. <br/>

Of course, this can be configured using spring boot properties, go to the large list of properties and check spring.datasource.

Add this to the properties file:
```
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/employee_directory?useSSL=false&serverTimezone=UTC
spring.datasource.username=springstudent
spring.datasource.password=springstudent
```

***Note:*** We don't need to pass the class name to the JDBC driver, Spring Boot detects it based on URL :'D

Based on configs, Spring Boot automatically creates the beans: DataSource, EntityManager, which is part of JPA ,these can then be injected. <br/>

**What is JPA?** <br/>
JPA is the standard API for ORM in Java.
It's a set of interfaces only because it's a set of specifications that need to be implemented.

Specs can be read here:
http://luv2code.com/jpa-spec

Some vendor implementations of JPA:
- Hibernate: we know what.
- EclipseLink:
More vendors:
http://luv2code.com/jpa-vendors

**Why JPA?** <br/>
Standard implementation makes things portable, our project can work with any implementation of JPA and we can switch them with very minimal code change and config change.

In Spring Boot, Hibernate is the standard implementation of JPA. <br/>
EntityManager is similar to SessionFactory, it can serve as a wrapper for Session. <br/>
That's why, in our DAO, we'll inject EntityManager. <br/>

We'll create 3 DAOs:
- Version 1: using native Hibernate.
- Version 2: using standard JPA.
- Version 3: using Spring Data.

#### Developing the Main Components
**Creating the DAO**
Steps:
1. Update db configs in properties file.
2. Create Employee entity.
3. Create DAO interface.
4. Create DAO implementation.
5. Create REST controller to use DAO.

**Step 1** <br/>
Go to the properties file, enter this info in it:
```
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/employee_directory?useSSL=false&serverTimezone=UTC
spring.datasource.username=springstudent
spring.datasource.password=springstudent
```

**Step 2** <br/>
Create a new package "com.luv2code.springboot.cruddemo.entity". <br/>
Create a new class Employee, give it:
- int Id,
- String firstName,
- String lastName,
- String email,
- a no arg contsructor,
- a constructor using fields without id,
- getters and setters,
- toString.
``` Java
@Entity
@Table(name="employee")
public class Employee {
	
	@Id
	@GeneratedValue(strategy=GenerationType.IDENTITY)
	@Column(name="id")
	private int id;
	
	@Column(name="first_name")
	private String firstName;
	
	@Column(name="last_name")
	private String lastName;
	
	@Column(name="email")
	private String email;
	
	public Employee() {
		
	}
	
	public Employee(String firstName, String lastName, String email) {
		this.firstName = firstName;
		this.lastName = lastName;
		this.email = email;
	}

	public int getId() {
		return id;
	}

	public void setId(int id) {
		this.id = id;
	}

	public String getFirstName() {
		return firstName;
	}

	public void setFirstName(String firstName) {
		this.firstName = firstName;
	}

	public String getLastName() {
		return lastName;
	}

	public void setLastName(String lastName) {
		this.lastName = lastName;
	}

	public String getEmail() {
		return email;
	}

	public void setEmail(String email) {
		this.email = email;
	}

	@Override
	public String toString() {
		return "Employee [id=" + id + ", firstName=" + firstName + ", lastName=" + lastName + ", email=" + email + "]";
	}
}
```

**Step 3** <br/>
Create a new package "com.luv2code.springboot.cruddemo.dao". <br/>
Create a new interface EmployeeDAO.
``` Java
public interface EmployeeDAO {
    public List<Employee> findAll();
}
```

**Step 4** <br/>
Create a new class EmployeeDAOImpl_Hibernate that implements EmployeeDAO.
- Give it a private EntityManager field.
- Inject it using constructor.
- Implement the method findAll, use entityManager.unwrap(Session.class) to get the session.
``` Java
@Repository
public class EmployeeDAOImpl_Hibernate implements EmployeeDAO {
	
	private EntityManager entityManager;

	@Autowired
	public EmployeeDAOImpl_Hibernate(EntityManager entityManager) {
		this.entityManager = entityManager;
	}

	@Override
	public List<Employee> findAll() {
        Session session = entityManager.unwrap(Session.class);

        TypedQuery<Employee> query = session.createQuery("from Employee", Employee.class);

        List<Employee> employees = query.getResultList();

        return employees;
	}
}
```

**Step 5** <br/>
Create a new package "com.luv2code.springboot.cruddemo.rest". <br/>
Create a new class in it "EmployeeRESTController". <br/>

***Note:*** We'll add the service layer later, for now we'll do our stuff in the controller directly (That is not a best practice).

In the class:
- Add a private EmployeeDAO field.
- Inject it using a constructor.
- Define a method findAll that returns the list of employees fetched by the employeeDAO, annotate it with @GetMapping for /employees.
``` Java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class EmployeeRESTController {
	
	private EmployeeDAO employeeDAO;

	@Autowired
	public EmployeeRESTController(EmployeeDAO employeeDAO) {
		this.employeeDAO = employeeDAO;
	}
	
	@GetMapping("/employees")
	public List<Employee> findAll() {
		return employeeDAO.findAll();
	}
}
```

Now run the main app, go to localhost:8080/api/employees, see the result :)

#### Adding CRUD Functionality
**Adding CRUD functionality to the interface**
First of all, go to EmployeeDAO, and in it add:
- a method to get one employee by id,
- a method to save an employee, and
- a method to delete an employee by id.
``` Java
public interface EmployeeDAO {
    public List<Employee> findAll();
    
    public Employee get(int id);
    
    public void save(Employee employee);
    
    public void delete(int id);
}
```

Next, in the EmployeeDAOImpl_Hibernate, implement the four new methods:
- to get an employee:
    - create a session,
    - get the employee,
    - return the employee.
- to save an employee:
    - create a session,
    - use saveOrUpdate.
- to delete an employee:
    - create a session,
    - create a query to delete employee with id = passed id,
    - set the parameter of the query to the passed id,
    - execute the query.
``` Java
@Repository
public class EmployeeDAOImpl_Hibernate implements EmployeeDAO {
	
	private EntityManager entityManager;

	@Autowired
	public EmployeeDAOImpl_Hibernate(EntityManager entityManager) {
		this.entityManager = entityManager;
	}

	@Override
	public List<Employee> findAll() {
        Session session = entityManager.unwrap(Session.class);
        TypedQuery<Employee> query = session.createQuery("from Employee", Employee.class);
        List<Employee> employees = query.getResultList();
        return employees;
	}

	@Override
	public Employee get(int id) {
		Session session = entityManager.unwrap(Session.class);
        Employee employee = session.get(Employee.class, id);
        return employee;
	}

	@Override
	public void save(Employee employee) {
		Session session = entityManager.unwrap(Session.class);
		session.saveOrUpdate(employee);
	}

	@Override
	public void delete(int id) {
		Session session = entityManager.unwrap(Session.class);
		TypedQuery<Employee> query = session.createQuery("delete from Employee where id =:id", Employee.class);
		query.setParameter("id", id);
		query.executeUpdate();
	}
}
```

#### Adding the Service Layer
Create a new package "com.luv2code.springboot.cruddemo.service". <br/>
Create a new interface EmployeeService. <br/>
Add the four CRUD methods to the interface. <br/>
``` Java
public interface EmployeeService {
	public List<Employee> findAll();
	
	public Employee get(int id);
	
	public void save(Employee employee);
	
	public void delete(int id);
}
```

Then, create a new class EmployeeServiceImpl that implements EmployeeService. <br/>
Add an EmployeeDAO field. <br/>
Implement the four methods by just calling the same four methods by the EmployeeDAO field. 
``` Java
@Service
public class EmployeeServiceImpl implements EmployeeService {
	
	private EmployeeDAO employeeDAO;
	
	@Autowired
	public EmployeeServiceImpl(EmployeeDAO employeeDAO) {
		this.employeeDAO = employeeDAO;
	}

	@Override
	@Transactional
	public List<Employee> findAll() {
		return employeeDAO.findAll();
	}

	@Override
	@Transactional
	public Employee get(int id) {
		return employeeDAO.get(id);
	}

	@Override
	@Transactional
	public void save(Employee employee) {
		employeeDAO.save(employee);
	}

	@Override
	@Transactional
	public void delete(int id) {
		 employeeDAO.delete(id);
	}
}
```

Finally, go to the EmployeeRESTController. <br/>
Remove the EmployeeDAO and replace it with EmployeeService everywhere. <br/>
``` Java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class EmployeeRESTController {
	
	private EmployeeService employeeService;

	@Autowired
	public EmployeeRESTController(EmployeeService employeeService) {
		this.employeeService = employeeService;
	}
	
	@GetMapping("/employees")
	public List<Employee> findAll() {
		return employeeService.findAll();
	}
}
```

Go to localhost:8080/api/employees, check the result, should be the same as before :) <br/>

#### Adding CRUD methods to the REST controller
***Note:*** I skipped this section for now to focus on Spring Boot and also I haven't studied Spring REST yet, so yeah.

### Spring Boot REST API Project With Standard JPA
Why? because coding to interfaces of JPA allows the project to be portable, we can switch from Hibernate to EclipseLink and to other stuff.

**Standard JPA API**
- Has methods similar to Hibernate.
- Has a query language JPQL, check:
http://luv2code.com/jpql

Examples of the JPA:
``` Java
// Creating/saving a new entity
entityManager.persist();

// retrieving an entity by id
entityManager.find();

// retrieving a list of entities
entityManager.createQuery();

// save or update an entity
entityManager.merge();

// delete an entity
entityManager.remove();
```
There are a lot of other methods of course, these are the CRUD methods we'll use.

Steps:
1. Create a new Class that implements EmployeeDAO.
2. Do the same for the injection and the fields.
3. Implement each method using JPA.

Notice the difference in the save method, entityManager returns the id of the employeed that was just saved/updated.
This is because if id = 0, they will insert, else, they will update, so we need to get the returned ID and set the entity object to the returned ID. (Useful for REST).

***Note:*** imports here are not from org.hibernate, they are from javax.persistence.
``` Java
import java.util.List;

import javax.persistence.EntityManager;
import javax.persistence.TypedQuery;

import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Repository;

import com.luv2code.springboot.cruddemo.entity.Employee;

@Repository
public class EmployeeDAOImpl_JPA implements EmployeeDAO {
	
	private EntityManager entityManager;

	@Autowired
	public EmployeeDAOImpl_JPA(EntityManager entityManager) {
		this.entityManager = entityManager;
	}
	
	@Override
	public List<Employee> findAll() {
        TypedQuery<Employee> query = entityManager.createQuery("from Employee", Employee.class);
        List<Employee> employees = query.getResultList();
        return employees;
	}

	@Override
	public Employee get(int id) {
		return entityManager.find(Employee.class, id);
	}

	@Override
	public void save(Employee employee) {
		Employee updatedEmployee = entityManager.merge(employee);
		employee.setId(updatedEmployee.getId());
	}

	@Override
	public void delete(int id) {
		TypedQuery<Employee> query = entityManager.createQuery("delete from Employee where id =:id", Employee.class);
		query.setParameter("id", id);
		query.executeUpdate();
	}
}
```

If we run it now, an error will pop up because now Spring doesn't know which implementation of EmployeeDAO to inject in the service.

Go to EmployeeServiceImpl, and use the annotation @Qualifier, passing in the bean id of the bean you want to use i.e. the JPA implementation.

***Note:*** don't forget to change the first letter of the JPA class passed in the @Qualifier annotation to lowercase i.e. make it employeeDAOImpl_JPA.
``` Java
@Service
public class EmployeeServiceImpl implements EmployeeService {
	
	private EmployeeDAO employeeDAO;
	
	@Autowired
	public EmployeeServiceImpl(@Qualifier("employeeDAOImpl_JPA") EmployeeDAO employeeDAO) {
		this.employeeDAO = employeeDAO;
	}
    ...
}
```



