# React Hooks

## Intro
``` js
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function Example() {
  // Declare a new state variable, which we'll call "count"
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>You clicked {count} times</p>
      <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
        Click me
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```
The function useState is a Hook: a function that lets us "attach" state and lifecycle features to a functional components.
It adds some local state to this functional component.
React will preserve this state between renders.
useState returns: current state, a function that can update the state.
So, count is now a state variable, and setCount is a callback to update the state.
That's why we use setCount(count + 1) to change the state.
It's like setState but doesn't merge both states.
useState accepts a state's initial value, for this example we passed 0.
We can use different useState hooks in one component.

Hooks don't work in class components.

Default hooks:
- State Hook:
- Effect Hook: 
	- fetching, changing the DOM, subscription, and so on, these are callde "Effects". 
	- useEffect is a hook that attaches a certain Effect -that we define- to a functional component. 
	- It kind of does a similar function to componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, componentWillUnmount. It runs after every render.
	- Yo ucan return a function to "clean up" that effect e.g. if you subscribed, you can return a function which, when invoked, unsubscribes. That function executes on unmount.
- useContext: subscribe to a react context without nesting.
- useReducer: to manage local state of complex components with a reducer.


Rules of hooks:
- Don't call hooks in loops, conditions, nested functions, etc. They must be directly in the top level.
- Don't call hooks from regular JS functions, only functional components.

Making your own hooks:
Sometimes we do this to reuse logic between components.
- Define a function where, inside it you use default hooks.
- Use that function instead of the normal hooks.

Each custom hook's call has a completely isolated state.

