# Introduction to Cloud Computing

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction to Cloud Computing](#introduction-to-cloud-computing)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Tips](#tips)
    + [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
    + [Why Use a Cloud](#why-use-a-cloud)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with markdown-toc</a></i></small>

## Prerequisites
- Nothing, you're good to go :smile:

## Tips
- This course is a high-level introduction to Cloud Computing, it's a drastic simplification of all the concepts and is designed for the absolute beginner.

### Cloud Computing
We hear a lot of things like iCloud, DropBox, "store your files in the cloud" and all that, so what IS the cloud? <br/>

Basically, people and businesses that use software extensively run into two problems:
- Storage is going low: we create more and more data like pictures, new programs, files, games, etc. and our hard disk is getting full.
- Newer programs and games require higher performance, and buying new parts for our computer is expensive.

**How can we solve this?** <br/>
Well, we have the internet now, we can use it, instead of using only your computer, you can access other computers and utilize their storage and even processing power :open_mouth: <br/>

This other computer is called a *Cloud*, it's basically just another computer that you use its power and storage as a service. <br/>

iCloud, AWS, and DropBox are called *Cloud Providers*, they provide a *Cloud* (a computer) for us to use for storage and processing power, and also provide other services like:
- Advanced security.
- Networking.
- Analytics.
- Virtualization.
- Developer tools.
etc.

In the real world, clouds are not just normal computers, they are data centers: rows and rows of racks of thousands of servers that serve millions of people around the world.

### Why Use a Cloud
Just like the scenario we encountered earlier, *consumers* usually use cloud services for:
- Storage and backups.
- Online access to stuff from anywhere around the world (they're not locally stored on your computer, you can share them across devices).
- The cloud is maintained by a company and supports thousands of users, so it's usually designed to be sturdy against common errors and faults.

In IT Terms, we can say that the cloud offers:
- **High Availability**: we can access data from anywhere, from any device, it's not locally stored on one computer anymore.
- **Fault Tolerance**: if the data is locally stored on one computer and that computer's hard drive fails, the data is gone, one error caused our data to be lost, so the hard drive isn't tolerant to faults.
The cloud is different, a company maintains the cloud that is designed to handle thousands of users and handle hundreds of errors and faults, and also cloud providers usually create different backups, so the probability of the cloud failing to the point that your data is lost is very low, the cloud can tolerate normal faults, or, we can call it *Fault Tolerant*.

*Companies and enterprises* use clouds for similar uses. The company's software and data is better stored on a cloud than on the company's own servers.

Let's say a food company expects 10,000 users to sign up to their website, the company needs servers to maintain the users' data. <br/>

If the company will buy its own servers to do that, then they face a lot of problems:
- Now they have to handle the cost and hassle buying, installation, and maintaining of servers. (Why should a food company worry about server maintenance?)
- What if only 2,000 users sign up? If the company has bought 10 servers where each server holds 1,000 users, now we have 8 servers that are just wasted money!

An amazing option for the company is to just use cloud services:
- The *food* company won't worry about IT and *server maintenance*, it will have all its time and resources to focus on, you know, *food*.
- The company doesn't have to estimate growth and plan specifically the costs of servers.
- The company doesn't have to wait for delivery of servers which can take weeks, now they can just use more servers from the cloud and have them ready in a matter of *minutes*. From weeks to minutes, that is a **BIG** improvement.

In IT words, we can say that the cloud provides:
- **Scalability**: the data can grow hugely without the customer company worrying about that. The growth or shrinkage of data isn't threatning since the company doesn't have to estimate it.
- **Elasticity**: Using more or less storage from the cloud is easily and quickly done in minutes.

Done, that's it :smile: