# Spring and Hibernate Project 1
We'll create a CRUD app that displays a list of customers.

***Note:*** In this notes, I'll only write anything that's new or important, but I won't go through the process of developing the project itself because it's a practice on all we've learned so far in Spring and Hibernate.

## New annotations added to Spring
- In the previous forms we wrote method="GET", that invokes an HTTP GET request.
- @RequestMapping: we used that to map ALL requests to a specific method.

If we want to constrain the request mapping, we can do one of two things:
- In @RequestMapping, pass the attribute method=RequestMethod.GET for example.
- Or, use the new annotations @GetMapping and @PostMapping

The new annotations are more constrained forms of @RequestMapping:
- @GetMapping: only maps GET requests.
- @PostMapping: only maps POST requests.

## The Service Layer and @Service Annotation
We'll put a layer between the Controller and the DAO.

Why? <br/>
- Actually, it's an implementation of the Service Facade design pattern.
- An intermediate layer that can be used to integrate data from different DAOs, this is useful for bigger apps.

@Service: a Spring annotation for services, also inherits from @Component, so will be found in component-scanning.

Steps:
1. Define a Service interface.
2. Define a Service implementation, in it we'll Inject the CustomerDAO.
    - Also, make the service have the @Transactional layer, and remove it from the DAO.

## Adding Custmers
Steps:
1. Update list-customers.jsp, add a button.
    - Add a button, set onClick="window.location.href = 'showFormForAdd'".
    - Go to the controller, add a function showFormForAdd(), annotate it with @GetMapping, return the form jsp name.
2. Create HTML for new customer with form.
    - To bind the form data, we need to make a new Customer object and add it to the model, the key will be used to bind data from the HTML form.
    - Now make the form.
3. Process form data and send it to service -> DAO -> save to DB.

4. Service, implement saveCustomer @Transactional.

5. DAO, implement saveCustomer.

## Updating Customers
Each row will have an Update link, when the link is clicked, we need to:
- Load that customer from DB.
- Prepopulate the form for the user.

Steps:
1. Update list-customers.jsp to have link.
2. Create customer-form and prepopulate it.
3. Process form data -> Controller -> Service -> DAO.
4. Implement getCustomer in Service and DAO.
5. Save the customer in the model in Controller so that form is populated with its data.
6. In the form jsp, add a <form:hidden path="id"> line.
7. So that when we submit, instead of adding a new customer, we use that to track the customer just so that the backend knows which customer to update.
8. In Controller, no change.
9. In DAO, we'll make a change:
- In hibernate, there's two ways to add data to database:
    - session.save: INSERT operation.
    - session.update: UPDATE operation.
    - we'll use another method: saveOrUpdate() which does INSERT if no id exists, or UPDATE if id exists.
    - This saves us a lot of low-level coding :smile:

