# Spring REST

## Table of Contents

## Tips
- sysout means System.out.print, I'm lazy.

## Introduction
So what's the problem here? <br/>
Let's say we're trying to build a web app that provides the weather report, and we need to get that data from an external service because we don't have a local database for weather.

Let's say we'll use the free Weather Service provided by http://openweathermap.org

We have some questions:
- How will we connect to the weather service?
A: We'll use REST API calls, REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer, it's a lightweight approach for communicating between applications.

- What programming language to use?
A: REST is language independent, we can use any programming language, we don't have to conform to the weather service's language.

- What's the data format?
A: REST applications can use any data format, the most common are XML and JSON.

***Note:*** REST API, RESTful API, REST Web Services, RESTful Web Services, REST Services, RESTful Services, they all mean the same thing, don't get caught up in naming them xD

## Where can we find other REST APIs to practice?
https://www.programmableweb.com/

## JSON

## REST and HTTP
We'll use HTTP since REST services are usually used over HTTP.

***Note:*** If you don't know what HTTP is, refer to: <a href="put http ref here">This link</a>

**In brief** <br/>
HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) is a messaging protocol used over the internet, it's a way of making messages such that it's easy to know where they come from, where they are going to, what do they mean, what does the client mean, etc.

HTTP messages are usually two types:
- Request message: this is a message sent by the client to the server asking it to do something.
- Response message: this is a message sent by the server as a response to a request message, in it the server says if the thing the client requested can be done or not.

Both messages can contain data, for example a client can request to add a new thing in database, so it must send data with the message.

Or, a client can request something from the database, so the server will respond and must send data with the response message.

To make it easy to understand both types of messages, HTTP has two things that are used to know what the client or server is saying in their message: **HTTP Methods**, and **Status Codes**.

**HTTP Methods:** these are specific commands sent by the client in the request message to specify exactly what it wants to do (they aren't like the methods we use in code, they are just named *methods*).
Examples of HTTP methods:
    + GET method: this means that the client wants the server to retrieve something and give it to the client.
    + POST method: this means that the client is passing some data to the server and wants it to add it to the database.
    + PUT method: this means that the client is passing some data to the server and wants it to UPDATE existing data with the data sent.
    + DELETE method: the client just tells the server that it wants to remove something from the database. 

Notice that the HTTP methods correspond to CRUD operations:
- POST == Create
- GET == Read
- PUT == Update
- DELETE == Delete

**Status Codes:** these are values sent by the server in the response message to indicate if the client's request was successful or not, with additional information to help the client understand exactly what happened, some examples are:
    - 200: this means that the request was successful (200 OK)
    - 404: this means that the thing that the client requested wasn't found by the server in the database (404 NOT FOUND)
    - 403: this means that the client's request is prohibited by the server (403 FORBIDDEN)
    etc.

Usually, status codes are in ranges:
- 100 -> 199: informational codes (hold on)
- 200 -> 299: success states (here you go)
- 300 -> 399: redirection (I'll send you to someone who can do what you want)
- 400 -> 499: error from the client (you messed up, fix your thing)
- 500 -> 599: error from the server (I messed up, sorry about that)

**HTTP request message structure** <br/>
- **Request Line:** this is the actual HTTP method, GET, POST, etc.
- **Header variables:** this holds request metadata, additional info needed by the request.
- **Message Body:** this contains any payload needed to be sent to the server. 

**HTTP response message structure** <br/>
- **Response Line:** this holds the status code of the response like 200, 404, etc.
- **Header variables:** this holds response metadata, like the format, the size of data, etc.
- **Message Body:** this contains any payload requested by the client.

**So what is the format of the payload of an HTTP message?** <br/>
A specific format called ***MIME***, stands for *Multipurpose Internet Mail-Extension*.

Basically, this is a format for the actual payload, for example:
- text/html
- text/plain
- application/json
- application/xml
etc.

The MIME format is used by the browser to know how to view the data.

**So what can we do to send and receive HTTP messages?** <br/>
There are different tools, like:
- curl, which is a CLI tool (CLI: command-line interface)
- wget, another CLI tool.
- Postman, a GUI tool, and a very popular tool.

We'll use Postman, it's free (both are free), go to  https://www.getpostman.com/, download it and install it, it's a simple application.

***Note:*** there are different tutorials for Postman, you can check them out but Postman isn't that complicated, you don't need a tutorial in my opinion, just follow along and you'll learn how to use it.

You can practice with http://www.jsontest.com and https://www.programmableweb.com/