# Spring REST

## Table of Contents

## Tips
- sysout means System.out.print, I'm lazy.

## Introduction
So what's the problem here? <br/>
Let's say we're trying to build a web app that provides the weather report, and we need to get that data from an external service because we don't have a local database for weather.

Let's say we'll use the free Weather Service provided by http://openweathermap.org

We have some questions:
- How will we connect to the weather service?
A: We'll use REST API calls, REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer, it's a lightweight approach for communicating between applications.

- What programming language to use?
A: REST is language independent, we can use any programming language, we don't have to conform to the weather service's language.

- What's the data format?
A: REST applications can use any data format, the most common are XML and JSON.

***Note:*** REST API, RESTful API, REST Web Services, RESTful Web Services, REST Services, RESTful Services, they all mean the same thing, don't get caught up in naming them xD

## Where can we find other REST APIs to practice?
https://www.programmableweb.com/

## JSON

## REST and HTTP
We'll use HTTP since REST services are usually used over HTTP.

***Note:*** If you don't know what HTTP is, refer to: <a href="put http ref here">This link</a>

**In brief** <br/>
HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) is a messaging protocol used over the internet, it's a way of making messages such that it's easy to know where they come from, where they are going to, what do they mean, what does the client mean, etc.

HTTP messages are usually two types:
- Request message: this is a message sent by the client to the server asking it to do something.
- Response message: this is a message sent by the server as a response to a request message, in it the server says if the thing the client requested can be done or not.

Both messages can contain data, for example a client can request to add a new thing in database, so it must send data with the message.

Or, a client can request something from the database, so the server will respond and must send data with the response message.

To make it easy to understand both types of messages, HTTP has two things that are used to know what the client or server is saying in their message: **HTTP Methods**, and **Status Codes**.

**HTTP Methods:** these are specific commands sent by the client in the request message to specify exactly what it wants to do (they aren't like the methods we use in code, they are just named *methods*).
Examples of HTTP methods:
    + GET method: this means that the client wants the server to retrieve something and give it to the client.
    + POST method: this means that the client is passing some data to the server and wants it to add it to the database.
    + PUT method: this means that the client is passing some data to the server and wants it to UPDATE existing data with the data sent.
    + DELETE method: the client just tells the server that it wants to remove something from the database. 

Notice that the HTTP methods correspond to CRUD operations:
- POST == Create
- GET == Read
- PUT == Update
- DELETE == Delete

**Status Codes:** these are values sent by the server in the response message to indicate if the client's request was successful or not, with additional information to help the client understand exactly what happened, some examples are:
    - 200: this means that the request was successful (200 OK)
    - 404: this means that the thing that the client requested wasn't found by the server in the database (404 NOT FOUND)
    - 403: this means that the client's request is prohibited by the server (403 FORBIDDEN)
    etc.

Usually, status codes are in ranges:
- 100 -> 199: informational codes (hold on)
- 200 -> 299: success states (here you go)
- 300 -> 399: redirection (I'll send you to someone who can do what you want)
- 400 -> 499: error from the client (you messed up, fix your thing)
- 500 -> 599: error from the server (I messed up, sorry about that)

**HTTP request message structure** <br/>
- **Request Line:** this is the actual HTTP method, GET, POST, etc.
- **Header variables:** this holds request metadata, additional info needed by the request.
- **Message Body:** this contains any payload needed to be sent to the server. 

**HTTP response message structure** <br/>
- **Response Line:** this holds the status code of the response like 200, 404, etc.
- **Header variables:** this holds response metadata, like the format, the size of data, etc.
- **Message Body:** this contains any payload requested by the client.

**So what is the format of the payload of an HTTP message?** <br/>
A specific format called ***MIME***, stands for *Multipurpose Internet Mail-Extension*.

Basically, this is a format for the actual payload, for example:
- text/html
- text/plain
- application/json
- application/xml
etc.

The MIME format is used by the browser to know how to view the data.

**So what can we do to send and receive HTTP messages?** <br/>
There are different tools, like:
- curl, which is a CLI tool (CLI: command-line interface)
- wget, another CLI tool.
- Postman, a GUI tool, and a very popular tool.

We'll use Postman, it's free (both are free), go to  https://www.getpostman.com/, download it and install it, it's a simple application.

***Note:*** there are different tutorials for Postman, you can check them out but Postman isn't that complicated, you don't need a tutorial in my opinion, just follow along and you'll learn how to use it.

You can practice with http://www.jsontest.com and https://www.programmableweb.com/

## REST Services in Spring
**So, how do we use REST messages in Spring?** <br/>
We do this by creating a REST controller in our Spring application.
This is done by the annotation *@RestController*, which is an extension of @Controller, but supports REST requests and responses.

Spring REST automatically converts java objects to JSON to be sent/received over HTTP.

This is done by a Spring project called Jackson (he hee), so we need that to be in our classpath or POM file. <br/>

### Creating a REST hello world app
Here, we'll create our REST controller which will be similar to normal controllers. <br/>
But, instead of writing JSP files, we'll use Postman (in practice. we integrate with a client-side app, but for the sake of practice we'll use Postman).

**Development Steps:**
1. Add Jackson to Spring MVC.
2. Add code for all Java configuration.
3. Add code for all Java Servlet Initializer.
4. Create a Spring REST service using @RestController.

**What is the Servlet Initializer?** <br/>
- Spring MVC provides support for web app initialization, we need to use the class "AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer".
- We override this class, inside it we have some methods:
    + getRootConfigClasses(): we don't have root configs, so we just return null.
    + getServletConfigClasses(): here, we set up the reference to our java config class.
    + getServletMapping(): this is where we map the root of our application i.e. the "/" at the start of any link we use.

**Step 1: Add Jackson to Spring MVC** <br/>
- First, we'll set up a new project, go to this link:
http://www.luv2code.com/spring-rest-demo
this will download the starter project and necessary JAR files we need for now.
- Unzip this into the eclipse workspace, then import it as a maven project in eclipse.
- Got to the maven repo https://search.maven.org/, search for com.fasterxml.jackson.core, choose version 2.9.5, copy this:
``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.fasterxml.jackson.core</groupId>
	<artifactId>jackson-databind</artifactId>
	<version>2.9.5</version>
</dependency>
```
and paste it in the POM file. (You don't need to do that, it's already in the POM file of the starter project)

**Step 2: Add code for all Java configuration** <br/>
- Create a new package "com.luv2code.springdemo.config".
- Create a new class "DemoAppConfig", annotate it with @Configuration, @EnableWebMvc, and @ComponentScan("com.luv2code.springdemo").
``` Java
@Configuration
@EnableWebMvc
@ComponentScan("com.luv2code.springdemo")
public class DemoAppConfig {

}
```

**Step 3: Add code for all Java Servlet Initializer** <br/>
- In the same package, create a new class "MySpringMvcDispatcherServletInitializer", add a superclass for it "AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer" (wow xD).
- You'll see some generated methods that we need to override.
    + getRootConfigClasses(): as we said, we won't do anything here, just return null.
    + getServletConfigClasses(): here, we return an array of config classes to be used for configuration, so return a Class[], inside it we just add one element which is the config class we just created: DemoAppConfig.class.
    + getServletMappings(): here we return an array of strings that describe the mappings we'll use as root, so here return a String{} and inside it just add "/".
``` Java
public class MySpringMvcDispatcherServletInitializer extends AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer {

	@Override
	protected Class<?>[] getRootConfigClasses() {
		// TODO Auto-generated method stub
		return null;
	}

	@Override
	protected Class<?>[] getServletConfigClasses() {
		return new Class[] { DemoAppConfig.class };
	}

	@Override
	protected String[] getServletMappings() {
		return new String[] { "/" };
	}
}
```

**Step 4: Create a Spring REST service using @RestController** <br/>
- Create a new package "com.luv2code.springdemo.rest".
- Create a new class "DemoRestController", annotate it with @RestController, and @RequestMapping("/test").
- Create a method:
    + public
    + returns String
    + called sayHello, no args
    + return "Hello World!"
    + annotate it with @GetMapping("/hello")
``` Java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/test")
public class DemoRestController {

	@GetMapping("/hello")
	public String sayHello() {
		return "Hello World!";
	}
}
```
- Now, run the project on a Tomcat server.
- A 404 page will pop up, that's normal.
- go to http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/test/hello, see the result.

*Nice* :smile: <br/>

*But wait, there's more* (*Billy Mays* reference). <br/>

- Open POSTMAN, post the same url in the url space, specify the request as a GET request, send it and see the response body.

*Real Nice* :sunglasses: <br/>

**What about that 404 thing at the beginning?** <br/>
We'll just add a web page in our root directory to remove it.
In src/main/webapp, create a JSP file "index.jsp", make a basic HTML page, you can add a link to go to "test/hello".
``` html
<a href="test/hello">Hello World Page</a>

<!-- 
Or, you can give the full context path if you want like this: -->
<a href="${pageContext.request.contextPath}/test/hello">Hello World Page</a>
```
Refresh your page, go to the root directory: http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/, you'll see the page appear.

***Note:*** if you encounter an error *javax.servlet.jsp cannot be resolvedto a type*, go to the pom file and add the JSP support dependency:
``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>javax.servlet.jsp</groupId>
	<artifactId>javax.servlet.jsp-api</artifactId>
	<version>2.3.1</version>
</dependency>
```
Issue resolved :smile: <br/>

### Converting Java Objects to JSON and Back
Here, we'll create a REST service that returns a list of students.
Basically a GET request that returns a list of services.

**So, how do we convert a List of students (or any java object) to JSON and back?** <br/>
- Jackson can help us do this.
- Spring automatically integrates Jackson, so:
    + Any JSON passed to a rest controller is converted to the corresponding java object.
    + Any java object returned from a rest controller will be converted to a corresponding JSON syntax.

**How?** <br/>
- Jackson calls the appropriate getter/setter methods for the fields of each object.
- So, we need to make sure to generate getters/setters for fields in objects that are expected to pass through REST controllers i.e. converted to JSON and back.

Behind the scenes, this is what happens:
- Spring REST and Jackson sit in the middle of the path of all requests, like a checkpoint or a proxy.
- Any request passes through it, and any JSON will be converted to a java object, and any java object will be converted to JSON.

***Note:*** there's a term in Java to describe normal java objects, and that is *Plain Old Java Object*, or ***POJO***, I'll use *POJO* from now on.

**Development Steps:** <br/>
1. Create a Java POJO for Student.
2. Create a REST service for the student.

**Step 1: Create a Java POJO for Student** <br/>
- Create a new package "com.luv2code.springdemo.entity".
- Create a new class "Student".
- Add this to the class:
    + Fields:
        - String firstName
        - String lastName
    + Methods:
        - no arg constructor
        - constructor with fields
        - getters & setters
``` Java
public class Student {
	public String firstName;
	public String lastName;
	
	public Student() {
		
	}

	public Student(String firstName, String lastName) {
		this.firstName = firstName;
		this.lastName = lastName;
	}

	public String getFirstName() {
		return firstName;
	}

	public void setFirstName(String firstName) {
		this.firstName = firstName;
	}

	public String getLastName() {
		return lastName;
	}

	public void setLastName(String lastName) {
		this.lastName = lastName;
	}
}
```

**Step 2: Create a REST service for the student** <br/>
- In the rest package, create a new clas StudentRestController.
- Annotate it with @RestController, @RequestMapping("/api").
- Inside it, we need to define a method for the endpoint "/students".
- Define a method, annotated with @GetMapping("/students"):
    + public
    + return type: List<Student> 
    + getStudents
    + no args
    + In it, create a new ArrayList<Student>, add some Student objects in it.
    + Return the list.
***Note:*** Notice we didn't return a String to a JSP page this time, we returned a List of objects, a POJO, that's because Jackson (hee hee) will convert it to JSON, which is the output we'll see when we go to http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/api/students.
``` Java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class StudentRestController {
	
	@GetMapping("/students")
	public List<Student> getStudents() {
		List<Student> students = new ArrayList<>();
		
		students.add(new Student("Max", "Payne"));
		students.add(new Student("Mona", "Sax"));
		students.add(new Student("Valerie", "Winterson"));
		students.add(new Student("Vinnie", "Gognitti"));
		students.add(new Student("Vladimir", "Lem"));
		
		return students;
	}
}
```
- Now, run the project on Tomcat, go to http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/api/students, see the result :smile:
- Go to Postman, perform a GET request using the link http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/api/students, see the result :smile:
- Go to any browser, go to this link http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/api/students, see the result :smile:

Notice that the result is always a JSON, Jackson has done its job, just like us :sunglasses:

### Using Path Variables
What if the link can change? <br/>
I mean, if we want to get a specific Student object, instead of creating a specific link for each one (which will be a nightmare), we can make a url argument that changes based on which student it is.

For example:
http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/api/students/{studentId}
Where studentId corresponds to the id of the Student object we want.

When we do that, Spring doesn't just accept this as a static link, it takes the studentId and uses it to search the DB and get the student whose Id is equal to studentId, so this is like an index.

But how do we do that in Code?
**In Code** <br/>
First of all, some refactoring:
- Why create a list for EVERY request of getStudents? **Extract** the list and make it a private field for the class.
- Why load the student data in every request, when we can call it only once using @PostConstruct, which makes a method get called one time only, after the bean is constructed? **Make a new method**:
    + public void
    + name: loadData
    + no args
    + Inside it, cut the part where we fill the list from the getStudents method and put it in here.
``` java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class StudentRestController {
	
	private List<Student> students;
	
	@PostConstruct
	private void loadData() {
		students.add(new Student("Max", "Payne"));
		students.add(new Student("Mona", "Sax"));
		students.add(new Student("Valerie", "Winterson"));
		students.add(new Student("Vinnie", "Gognitti"));
		students.add(new Student("Vladimir", "Lem"));
	}
	
	@GetMapping("/students")
	public List<Student> getStudents() {
		return students;
	}
}
```


***Note:*** Add this dependency if you can't import the @PostConstruct method:
``` xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>javax.annotation</groupId>
	<artifactId>javax.annotation-api</artifactId>
	<version>1.3.2</version>
</dependency>
```

Now, let's add our method to retrieve a student based on ID:
- In the student controller class, add a new method:
    + public
    + return type: Student
    + name: getStudent
    + args: int studentId
- Annotate the method by @GetMapping("/students/{studentId}"), notice that the variable part is surrounded by {}.
- Inside the braces for args, annotate the studentId with the annotation @PathVariable, this binds the argument with the url argument that has the **SAME NAME**, so make sure both are called ***studentId***.
- inside the method, use the list.get method to get the student by Id.
``` Java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class StudentRestController {
	
	private List<Student> students;
	
	@PostConstruct
	private void loadData() {
        students = new ArrayList<>();
		students.add(new Student("Max", "Payne"));
		students.add(new Student("Mona", "Sax"));
		students.add(new Student("Valerie", "Winterson"));
		students.add(new Student("Vinnie", "Gognitti"));
		students.add(new Student("Vladimir", "Lem"));
	}
	
	@GetMapping("/students")
	public List<Student> getStudents() {
		return students;
	}
	
	@GetMapping("/students/{studentId}")
	public Student getStudent(@PathVariable int studentId) {
		return students.get(studentId);
	}
}
```
Now, run on server and go to http://localhost:8080/spring-rest-demo/api/students/{studentId}, but replace studentId with numbers like 0, 1, 2.
- See the result in a browser and in the eclipse browser.
- And in postman.
We are amazing :sunglasses: <br/>

Also, try entering a number that isn't present in the list and see what will happen.

A 500 Internal Server Error :worried: <br/>
We'll fix that in the next section.

