# Introduction to Amazon Web Services

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction to Amazon Web Services](#introduction-to-amazon-web-services)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Tips](#tips)
  * [What is AWS](#what-is-aws)
  * [AWS Services](#aws-services)
  * [Recap of AWS Services](#recap-of-aws-services)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with markdown-toc</a></i></small>

## Prerequisites
- Only a basic understanding of Cloud Computing, check this small course out: https://bit.ly/2pk3dB2

## Tips
- This course is a high-level introduction to Cloud Computing, it's a drastic simplification of all the concepts and is designed for the absolute beginner.

## What is AWS
Amazon Web Services, or AWS, is a *Cloud Provider* by the company Amazon, it's one of many cloud providers but it's one of the leading ones.

The biggest client company that uses AWS is Netflix.

AWS provides services like any other cloud, like:
- Storage
- Computing power
- Security
- etc. etc.
We'll examine some of AWS's services.

## AWS Services

**How can a cloud host different clients at the same time?** <br/>
AWS is a huge cloud, and a lot of clients use it, so each client gets a part of the cloud that's private to them, it's secure, it's private where clients can use it however they want, it's like your facebook profile, this part of cloud is called a *Virtual Private Cloud*, or ***VPC***, this is one of main services of AWS.

**When we go to www.netflix.com, we get a homepage, what happened in the background?** <br/>
We are connecting to an AWS server that hosts the web application of Netflix and contains the necessary data and code to display a web page and lets us use the netflix web app.

So, Netflix's main software is hosted on an AWS server, AWS lets other clients host their apps on their servers and be used to run the apps.

This is basically a service that lets client use the **Computing Power** of AWS's servers, and it's called *Elastic Cloud Compute*, or ***EC2***.

When you open netflix, you are accessing an *EC2 instance*, or a server hosted by AWS that runs a client's app, in this case Netflix.

**What happens when we sign in to our netflix account?** <br/>
When we do that, another page appears with the shows and videos that WE have access to.

AWS uses our user information to go to a Database and fetch a list of stuff that we have access to.

Netflix's data is stored in AWS's database, AWS gives clients space to make a database and deal with it, this is another service called *Relational Database Service*, or ***RDS***.

**What if thousands of people try to access netflix at the same time?** <br/>
If too many people try to access one server, the server may get overloaded and crash. This happens with on-premise servers, and this means that they are not *Scalable* or *Elastic*.

AWS solves this by doing something amazing: when a server (an *EC2 instance*) begins to get overloaded, AWS automatically adds another *EC2 instance* to Netflix's software i.e. a new server is added to run Netflix's software so that the additional users are handled.

Also, if a lot of users log off netflix and go do something else, AWS shuts down the *EC2 instances* that are not used i.e. some of the servers dedicated to Netflix are freed to lower resource wasting and use these servers for other clients, so this system is *Highly Available* to other clients and other users.

This means that the Netflix software can handle more users than it can handle on one server, because the number of servers can expand easily thanks to AWS, and this can happen in minutes, this system is *Scalable* and *Elastic*.

Also, this makes the probability of an app hosted on AWS cloud failing very low, this system is also *Fault Tolerant*.

**Where does netflix actually store the actual video files? They must be stored in a physical storage, right?** <br/>
AWS provides a physical storage bucket that is "unlimited", it's not unlimited but it's so large that no client have even came close to it.

Also, there will be multiple backups of the data, this gives us even more *High Availability*.

DropBox is basically a nice UI that connects to AWS and uses that storage container.

Even though it's a **huge** storage, it's very simple for clients and consumers to use it.

This service is called *Simple Storage Service*, or ***S3***.

**So where is the AWS cloud? Like physically, where is the AWS servers in the world?** <br/>
Check this map right here:
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/

It's divided into different regions, each circle on the map in the link is a region.

A region is a location where a lot of availability zones.

Availability zones are data centers, they are the places where physical resources, servers, etc. are located. Being near a region makes data travel much faster to you.

These regions are located such that latency for all customers is reduced as much as possible.

## Recap of AWS Services
AWS's services:
- **VPC**: Virtual Private Cloud: clients can have their private spaces of each cloud which is secure and private.
- **EC2**: Elastic Cloud Compute: clients can host their software on the cloud and use the cloud's computing power, any app hosted on the cloud becomes *scalable, elastic, fault tolerant, and highly available*.
- **RDS**: Relational Database Service: clients can host their databases on the cloud.
- **S3**: Simple Storage Service: a gigantic massive and practically unlimited storage system with multiple backups of data put on it.

Done, now you know AWS :smile: