# AWS Essentials

## Table of Contents

## Prerequisites
- Basic understanding of what cloud computing is, check this course out: https://bit.ly/2pk3dB2
- Basic introduction to AWS cloud, check this course out: https://bit.ly/2OI8iO7
- There are no hard prerequisites for this course, but some things may help, like:
    + Basic understanding of computer networking.
    + Basic experience with linux.
    + Basic understanding of some of AWS's services.

## About the Course
This course is a practical hands-on course on how to use some of AWS's services, so this course won't focus on explaining the theoretical background of each service.

If you want a simple understanding of AWS first, check out this course:
Introduction to Amazon Web Serivces: https://bit.ly/2OI8iO7 <br/>

If you want a simple understanding of Cloud Computing in general, check out this course:
Introduction to Cloud Computing: https://bit.ly/2pk3dB2 <br/>

## AWS Account Basics
### AWS Free Tier
To be able to work with AWS, we'll need an AWS accout.
AWS provides something called AWS Free Tier, it's an option to use AWS resources to get some AWS experience at no cost.
Check out the documentation here:
https://amzn.to/2YEjP2f
To use AWS Free Tier, we'll need to create an AWS account.

### Create an AWS Account
To make an account, go to AWS website and choose Create AWS account, now you'll need:
- An email
- credit card info (even if you'll use the free subscription)
- Address
- Phone number, with the extension of your country
- Other personal info

***Note:*** AWS will draw 1$ from you bank account for verification then will return it once verification happens, don't worry about that.

In the middle, you'll receive an automated call from Amazon asking for a 4-digit number that will appear on your screen, enter it in the call and it will verify your identity.

Then, select Basic Plan (which is free). <br/>

Congrats, now you have an AWS account :smile: <br/>

Sign in to the console, and there you go :smile: <br/>

**Using the AWS Console** <br/>
The AWS Console is where you manage any of the AWS services that you'll use.

You can access an AWS service by searching in the search bar above, or choose it from the giant list in front of you.

Check out the service *Billing*, and the service *CloudWatch*.

**AWS Documentation** <br/>
Open the *Support* menu on the top right, you'll find Documentation, this is the official documentation of AWS.

Now, let's dive into the services of AWS :smile:

## AWS Services
### Identity and Access Management - IAM
This is a service that restricts access to AWS resources and services to authorized users.

We use it to create users for our team, as well as user groups, user roles (that allow access to specific things), and access policies.

Go to the AWS console, search for IAM, and select it. <br/>

When we created our account, it became a *root account*, this is an account that has all privileges and can do anything in AWS.

Any other user created isn't given any authorization except when the root account (or another account with authorization) assigns the new user account specific roles and access rights.

#### Setting up IAM
- Go to the console.
- Go to IAM, this will open your IAM Dashboard.
- There will be a list of 5 uncompleted tasks, these are *Best Practices*.
    + Delete root access keys.
    + Activate MFA.
    + Create Individual IAM users.
    + Use groups to assign permissions to users.
    + Apply an IAM password policy.

***Note:*** there is a lot of *AWS Best Practices*, you'll hear about that a lot.

So let's go over the tasks:
**Delete root access keys** <br/>
- This is a task that is concerned with the fact that your account is now a root account, it has all privileges and all access rights.
- It's better to create a new restricted user, then delete the root account and use the restricted user.
- This task is already completed, so don't do it.

**Activate MFA** <br/>
- This task acti Activate multi-factor authentication.
- This provides an additional layer of security, a random 6-digit code that we need to input (other than with our password), to log in.
- Types of MFA:
    + Virtual MFA: smartphone or tablet, we can use an app like Google Authenticator.
    + hardware Key Fob: it's like the *HSBC secure key*, a small physical device that's used to generate that code, it's ordered from Amazon. 
- In the IAM Dashboard, open the task *Activate MFA on your root account*, then click on *Manage MFA*.
- Choose Virtual MFA device.
- Open your mobile phone, download Google Authenticator (or any authentication app that's compatible with AWS, check the list provided in the window that just opened).
- Open the Google Authenticator.
- Click Begin Setup, Scan barcode, it will open the camera.
- Go back to the computer, to the AWS console, the IAM dashboard, in the window that was opened, click Next Step, a barcode will show up, scan it.
- A 6-digit will show up, type it in the MFA Code 1, then wait for a new one to generate on your phone.
- Type the new one in the next box MFA Code 2.
- Click on Assign MFA. 
Now you've activated MFA :smile:

**Create Individual IAM users** <br/>
Because of security reasons, it's better to not use a root account, and instead use accounts that have just enough access rights to accomplish their tasks.

We'll create a user for us:
- In the IAM Dashboard, open the task, click Manage Users.
- Click Add User.
- Give a user name.
- Check both checkboxes Programmatic access, and AWS Management Console access.
- Create a password, uncheck the "Require user to reset password" checkbox.
- Click Next.
- Here, we give this user some permissions and access rights, we can:
    + Add user to a group with permissions, where all users in a group have the same permissions.
    + Copy permissions from another user to this user.
    + Attach existing policies directly to the user, this is manually assigning permissins to the user.
- Click on the last one: Attach existing policies directly, a list will appear.
- Choose AdministratorAccess, then click Next twice, then Add User.
- Now, the user has been created, notice that a login link for this specific user has been created, this is what we will use when we log in to the new user :smile:
***Note:*** there's an access key and a secret key, we'll look at them later.

**Use groups to assign permissions to users** <br/>
User groups are an easy way to give users permissions, we make a group with permissions and add 10 users, now those 10 users have the same permissions, the Group permissions.

This is useful if we want to assign a user group to a specific department in our client company.

- Click on Manage Groups.
- Create a new group.
- Give it a name.
- Also, choose policies just like the user.
- Choose AdministratorAccess.
- Create the group.
Done :smile:

**Apply an IAM password policy** <br/>
This task makes other IAM users required to create strong passwords.
- Click on Manage Password Policy.
- Set password Policy.
- A list of checkboxes will appear, we can set restrictions on the passwords here.
- Check the Prevent Password Reuse box, and set the limit to 3 times, then Finish.

That's it, we've set up IAM in our AWS account :smile: <br/>

#### IAM Users and Policies
