
# AWS Services - Identity and Access Management - IAM
This is a service that restricts access to AWS resources and services to authorized users.

We use it to create users for our team, as well as user groups, user roles (that allow access to specific things), and access policies.

Go to the AWS console, search for IAM, and select it. <br/>

When we created our account, it became a *root account*, this is an account that has all privileges and can do anything in AWS.

Any other user created isn't given any authorization except when the root account (or another account with authorization) assigns the new user account specific roles and access rights.

## Setting up IAM
- Go to the console.
- Go to IAM, this will open your IAM Dashboard.
- There will be a list of 5 uncompleted tasks, these are *Best Practices*.
    + Delete root access keys.
    + Activate MFA.
    + Create Individual IAM users.
    + Use groups to assign permissions to users.
    + Apply an IAM password policy.

***Note:*** there is a lot of *AWS Best Practices*, you'll hear about that a lot.

So let's go over the tasks:
**Delete root access keys** <br/>
- This is a task that is concerned with the fact that your account is now a root account, it has all privileges and all access rights.
- It's better to create a new restricted user, then delete the root account and use the restricted user.
- This task is already completed, so don't do it.

**Activate MFA** <br/>
- This task acti Activate multi-factor authentication.
- This provides an additional layer of security, a random 6-digit code that we need to input (other than with our password), to log in.
- Types of MFA:
    + Virtual MFA: smartphone or tablet, we can use an app like Google Authenticator.
    + hardware Key Fob: it's like the *HSBC secure key*, a small physical device that's used to generate that code, it's ordered from Amazon. 
- In the IAM Dashboard, open the task *Activate MFA on your root account*, then click on *Manage MFA*.
- Choose Virtual MFA device.
- Open your mobile phone, download Google Authenticator (or any authentication app that's compatible with AWS, check the list provided in the window that just opened).
- Open the Google Authenticator.
- Click Begin Setup, Scan barcode, it will open the camera.
- Go back to the computer, to the AWS console, the IAM dashboard, in the window that was opened, click Next Step, a barcode will show up, scan it.
- A 6-digit will show up, type it in the MFA Code 1, then wait for a new one to generate on your phone.
- Type the new one in the next box MFA Code 2.
- Click on Assign MFA. 
Now you've activated MFA :smile:

**Create Individual IAM users** <br/>
Because of security reasons, it's better to not use a root account, and instead use accounts that have just enough access rights to accomplish their tasks.

We'll create a user for us:
- In the IAM Dashboard, open the task, click Manage Users.
- Click Add User.
- Give a user name.
- Check both checkboxes Programmatic access, and AWS Management Console access.
- Create a password, uncheck the "Require user to reset password" checkbox.
- Click Next.
- Here, we give this user some permissions and access rights, we can:
    + Add user to a group with permissions, where all users in a group have the same permissions.
    + Copy permissions from another user to this user.
    + Attach existing policies directly to the user, this is manually assigning permissins to the user.
- Click on the last one: Attach existing policies directly, a list will appear.
- Choose AdministratorAccess, then click Next twice, then Add User.
- Now, the user has been created, notice that a login link for this specific user has been created, this is what we will use when we log in to the new user :smile:
***Note:*** there's an access key and a secret key, we'll look at them later.

**Use groups to assign permissions to users** <br/>
User groups are an easy way to give users permissions, we make a group with permissions and add 10 users, now those 10 users have the same permissions, the Group permissions.

This is useful if we want to assign a user group to a specific department in our client company.

- Click on Manage Groups.
- Create a new group.
- Give it a name.
- Also, choose policies just like the user.
- Choose AdministratorAccess.
- Create the group.
Done :smile:

**Apply an IAM password policy** <br/>
This task makes other IAM users required to create strong passwords.
- Click on Manage Password Policy.
- Set password Policy.
- A list of checkboxes will appear, we can set restrictions on the passwords here.
- Check the Prevent Password Reuse box, and set the limit to 3 times, then Finish.

That's it, we've set up IAM in our AWS account :smile: <br/>

## IAM Users and Policies
Here, we'll talk about how to create an use IAM users and policies. <br/>

Let's say we have a user: Max, Max should be able to access an S3 Bucket in AWS. To do that, we'll need to create an IAM account for Max, just like what we've done in the second task: **Create Individual IAM users** <br/>

Objectives:
1. Create an account for Max.
2. Give them access to S3.

1. While creating an IAM user, we'll choose something called Access Type:
    - **Programmatic access**: this provides the account with an access & secret access key (public/private key), so that they can access AWS resources using CLI or an application they're developing, this is good for developers.
    - **AWS Management Console Access**: the user can log in to the AWS console and manage their AWS resources from the console.
2. Give the account for Max the AWS Management Console Access.
3. In the Set Permissions, give Max the AmazonS3FullAccess permission. (To give the account access to S3 Bucket: Objective 2)
4. Add tags (optional), tags are key/value pairs attached to the account, set a new tag where the key is *Name* and the value is *Max*. 

Objective 1 and 2 completed :smile: <br/>

## IAM User Groups
As we've said earlier, we can make user groups and assign access policies to them, then put users in those groups so that they get the group's policies.

We do this the same way we did in the task **Use groups to assign permissions to users** <br/>

**What if we want to give a user in a group some more access?** <br/>
We can put users in many groups, up to 10 groups, they get all the access policies of all the groups they're in.


For example, if Max is in group G1, which has the access policy for S3, and in the group G2, which has the access policy for EC2, then Max gets the access policy for S3 *and* EC2.

Creating a group:
1. In the IAM Dashboard, select Groups.
2. Create New Group.
3. Give the group a name.
4. Give the group Permissions, we'll give it three policies: 
    - AmazonS3FullAccess. 
    - AmazonEC2FullAccess. 
    - AmazonRDSFullAccess.

We'll use the other policies later.

## IAM Roles
We have users and user groups, and gave them access policies so that they can access the S3 bucket.

But, what if *other* AWS services need access to S3? For example EC2 wants to access S3. :open_mouth:

An EC2 instance is a virtual server, it may have a service that wants to access S3, so how do we let that service access S3?

We don't attach policies directly to a service, instead, we use something else: *Role*.

A *Role* is like a user account but for services.

Let's create a role to further understand it:
1. In the IAM Dashboard, choose Roles.
2. Create role.
3. Next, Choose the service we want to give a role to.
3. Next, give it the permission AmazonS3FullAccess.
4. Next, (optional)
5. Next, Give the role a name.
6. Finish, that's it :smile:

## IAM Practice Lab
<< Will be covered later >>

