# Even Deeper Into AWS

## Table of Contents

## Tips

## Introduction

## AWS Services - Simple Queue Service SQS
>> write intro for queues, decoupled architecture using queues, and microservices
>> write intro for SQS

SQS provides us with highly available queues that can be used to send and receive messages between producers and users.
The messages in these queues are retrieved through *polling*.

>> what is polling

There are two types of *polling*:
- Long: wait for the message to be available, then get it.
- Short: SQS samples a part of servers and returns messages from those servers.

Messages in SQS can be up to 256 KB of text in any format.

SQS offers two types of queues:
- Standard: 
    + Nearly unlimited number of messages per second.
    + Multiple producers and consumers.
    + Best-effort delivery, and guaranteed delivery at least once. (This is the main feature here)
    + But the order of these messages isn't guaranteed.
    + There is a possibility that duplicate messages may come in, so
    + Supports 120,000 in-flight messages.
- FIFO: 
    + Up to 3000 messages per seconds with batching, and 300 messages per second with batching.
    + Multiple producers, but ONE GROUP of multiple consumers, so multiple customers can't guarantee that they are sent in order of their arrival in terms of each consumer, but are guaranteed to be in order in terms of the main FIFO queue.
    + Good for apps that don't tolerate duplicates.
    + Guarantees that messages are sent and processed in order.
    + Supports 20,000 in-flight messages.

SQS Queues can have different settings too:
- Dead-letter Queue: a queue for any malformed data that wasn't processed by consumers.
- DelaySeconds: how long messages take to be added to the queue upon creation.
- VisibilityTimeout: how long messages are invisible after being received by a consumer (How long the messages are in-flight).

SQS queues are highly available and redundant, they can also be PCI complient.

In the AWS console,
- Choose Simple Queue Service.
- Create a Queue:
    + Give it a name.
    + Choose the type to be Standard.

#### How to let producers and consumers access SQS resources.
We need to give access to AWS services or any AWS accounts to use SQS.
An API called SQS AddPermission API: this generates access control policies to SQS. Some services just use an *IAM role*.

In the AWS console,
- Go to Simple Queue Service.
- Open the queue you created earlier.
- Now, we can:
    + Click Queue Actions, then choose Add Permission.
    + Or, in the lower section, open Permissions tab, and click Add Permission.
- Or, in the lower section in Permissions tab, we'll choose Edit Policy Document (This is a bare bones document).
- Before we change this, we need to specify what we want to do, let our example be:
    + Have an S3 bucket use an SQS resource policy to publish messages to an SQS queue whenever an item in it is created.

Go to the AWS Console, then choose S3, create a new bucket,
- Open the bucket, click Properties section.
- Add Events, add a notification:
    + Give the event a name.
    + Send To: choose an SQS Queue.
- If you click Create, you'll get an error, because the permissions aren't added yet.
- Get the name of the bucket (Actually, we need the *ARN*) of the bucket.

Go back to the SQS management console, to the bare bones document we were editing, and paste this:
``` json

```
- Then, go back to the S3 Bucket and set the event.
- Now, create an item in the S3 Bucket and see the message get created in SQS :smile:


#### How to use the queues
**Step 1** is obvious, create a Queue. <br/>
**Step 2**: we need to have producers that can send info to the queue, they can be:
    - AWS Applications
    - Applications outside AWS
For any application to be an SQS producer, it should be able to:
    - produce SQS messages, and
    - send them to an SQS queue.

**Step 3**: any app that is responsible for:
    - consumeing and processing SQS messages, and 
    - deleting the message from the SQS queue, that must be done explicitly.

#### Polling Types
- Short polling (Default):
    + Queries some SQS servers to know if there are messages available for a response or not.
    + 
- Long polling
    + Consumers wait for messages to become available.
    + 

#### SQS Messages
- Up to 256 KB.
- Up to 10 metadata attributes
- XML, JSON, or plain text.
- Up to 14 day wait time, down to 1 minute wait time.
- In-flight up to 12 hrs.
- Added to Dead-letter queue if consumers are unable to process them.

