# AWS Services - Virtual Private Cloud VPC

## Introduction
A *Virtual Private Cloud*, or ***VPC***, is a private subsection of AWS that a client controls and can place their AWS resources, such as EC2 instances.

It's basically a small cloud for the client, the client has full control over that small cloud. You know in Facebook you have your own profile that you control? It's the same concept, but for a cloud.

When we create an AWS account, a default VPC is created for us, let's check it out:
1. In the AWS Console, search for VPC.
2. Open it, the VPC Dashboard will open.

In our VPC, we have all our resources and we can control them, like our Database, our EC2 instances, etc.

**How does VPC work?** <br/>
To make a private network at home:
- Your internet service provider ISP provides a connection to the internet.
- To connect to that connection, we need a gateway.
- A modem provides a gateway, and it connectes to a router.
- Which then connects to our devices.
- Also, a firewall is used to monitor the data being passed through the network.

So essentially, we have a private network at home and we connect THAT network to the internet. If any of the devices in this scenario isn't working properly, the connection doesn't work.

Data flows in this way:
- Our devices request access to something in the internet.
- This request goes through the Firewall.
- Then it goes to our router, which determines if that communication is local or internet, if it's local it's kept into the home network, if not it goes to the modem, then to the internet.
- Finally, the traffic returned from the internet goes from the modem, to the router, through the firewall, to the device.

**The same concept in VPC** <br/>
- If we have different EC2 instances in our VPC.
- If these EC2 instances want something from the internet, the request goes through the *Network Access Control List* **NACL**, which is a virtual firewall.
- THen, it goes to a route table, which is like a router.
- Then, it goes to an Internet Gateway, which is like a modem, and sends the response to the internet.
- The traffic from the internet goes through the Internet Gateway, to the Route table and routed to the right EC2 instance, goes through **NACL**, and finally arrives to the EC2 instance.

