# React with Redux

## Table of Contents

## Tips

## Prerequisites

## So what is the problem with React
Think of your application as a Tree data structure, where the main component, *App.js* is the root of that tree.
Let's say App.js contains Component1, Component2, and Component3 inside its render function.
Where Component1, Component2, and Component3 are different components defined in their own .js files.
Let's say Component1 contains two components in its render function: MiniComponent1 and MiniComponent2.

All of that seems normal. (At least, I hope it does xD)
If MiniComponent1 needs to access the state of its parent, Component1, that can be done by many ways, for example passing Component1's state as a prop to MiniComponent1, or using render props and passing the state as an argument.

But what if Component1 needs to access MiniComponent1's state? A solution for that is *Lifting the State*, basically taking MiniComponent's state and putting it in Component1, then using the above method to make MiniComponent1 use it. **That's not a good solution.**

And also, what if Component1 needs to access Component2's state? Notice that Component2 is not a parent or a child component, it's in another branch of the tree.
What if Component2 needs to access MiniComponent1's state? Same thing.

These types of problems occur because of React's design, React is designed to make separate components so that they are loosely coupled. Don't get me wrong, React is fine, this is actually a good software design practice, and is the reason why React is awesome.

But everything has pros and cons, that's what we, software engineers, are here for. We solve problems to create solutions that usually are not *absolute solutions,* they are slightly better problems than the one before it.

So, React is awesome, it's amazing in fact and I love it :heart:

But how do we solve this problem?

This problem occurs usually when:
- A component needs to access the state of the child component.
- A component needs to access the state of its parent's component.
- A component needs to access the state of another component that isn't a parent or a child, it's in another branch of the application tree.

Some awesome software engineers thought of an idea: **What if, instead of each component having its own local state, we make one huge Global state, that all components can access?**

Why is this solution good?
- This will make the components remain loosely coupled, because they don't depend on each other directly, there won't be circular dependencies, they will all access the same object that has the Global state.
- The problem with the *Lifting State* solution is that parent components now worry about variables that they don't use and they just pass it to their children, just because they need another thing from the local state of their children. This solution makes each component only use the variables they are concerned with in the Global State, without needing to access others.
- Also, this usually eliminates the need for *Lifting State*, making our code easier.

Not only did these software engineers think of that solution, they also thought: If we do this, then the global state itself is loosely coupled to other components, so **why does every developer have to make the global state from scratch, when we can provide them with a Ready-made Global State object, with all the functionalities they need to access and use the state?**

And, they made a library for that, it's called ***Redux***, and that's what we'll go through in this course.

### Design Principles for Redux
Redux as a library is an awesome library and we'll see it, before we do, we need to know what definitions it uses:
1. Pure Functions: A pure function is a function that produces the same output when given the same input, *Regardless of the state of the application.*
2. Immutability: This is a concept in functional programming, it means that whenever you use any data structures, do **Not** modify it directly. Instead, make a copy, modify that copy, and return that copy.

For example:
``` js
// If we have an array like this,
var a = [1, 2, 3];

// and we want to modify it using a function called replaceSecondElementWith, 
// which replaces the second element with an element we give.
//
var b = replaceSecondElementWith(a, 45);

```