# Basic Algorithm Techniques
## Recursion
### What is recursion anyway
One of the most popular techniques of writing algorithms is the ***Recursion*** technique. <br/>

When we encounter a problem, sometimes we find that this problem can be divided into smaller problems, such that each smaller problem is like a smaller version of the main problem.

For example, if we have a 10 boxes lying around, and we want to organize them from smallest to biggest, we may say that this problem consists of two small problems:
- Organizing 5 randomly picked boxes from smallest to biggest.
- Organizing the 5 left boxes from smallest to biggest.
Then we combine both arrangements of boxes in a way that we end up with all the boxes sorted in the order we want.

You know what? <br/>
The first *small problem* can be divided into *even smaller problems* that are basically smaller versions of the *small problem*:
- Organizing 3 boxes in order.
- Organizing the last 2 boxes in order.

We can keep doing this, the first *even smaller problem* can be divided into *tiny problems*:
- Organizing 2 boxes in order.
- Organizing 1 box in order.

But, hold on, that last tiny problem is strange, isn't it? **How do we sort one box?** <br/>
Well, the answer is: we don't, because we have reached *the smallest size of a box sorting problem*, we can't divide this any further, we have reached the logically smallest amount of boxes we can sort, which consists of only one box, this isn't even a *tiny problem*, this is a ***base problem***

At this point, we can **Stop dividing** the problem into smaller smaller problems, now we can combine consecutive *base problems*, creating a *tiny problem*.
Then, we combine consecutive *tiny problems*, creating an *even smaller problem*.
Then, we combine consecutive *even smaller problems*, creating a *small problem*.
Then, we combine the remaining *small problems*, finally solving the *main problem*, and finally arranging all the boxes in order.

**That last part is interesting, notice how we *divided*, then *solved*, then *combine*?** <br/>
We basically applied one algorithm on a smaller problem, then applied *the same* algorithm on the bigger versions of the problem, then we went bigger and bigger until we solved the whole problem.

So, for these kind of problems (The one that can be divided into smaller versions of itself) our algorithm must be able to:
- repeat onto smaller and smaller versions of the problem.
- stop repeating when we reach the smallest possible version of the problem, the *base problem*.

In code, this is done by writing an algorithm in a function that does three things:
1. The steps of the algorithm.
2. Check if we have reached the base problem or not:
    - If we didn't reach the base problem yet, *then*: The function *repeats* the algorithm on a smaller version of the problem.
    - If we reached the base problem, *then*: the function combines the results of all smaller problems to solve the big problem.

The first step varies according to the problem, so that's left up to you.
The second step is very easy, we just need to *Check*, so we need a conditional statement.
The third step can be achieved in two ways:
    - By using a loop, we can *repeat* the algorithm.
    - By making the function ***call itself again***, on smaller versions of the problem.

**Wait, a function calling itself? That will create an infinite loop!** <br/>
Yes, that is true, ***unless*** we make the function call itself *if* a certain condition is true.

**What condition are we talking about?** <br/>
We are talking about this condition "*did we reach the base problem?*"
If the answer is **YES**, then the function does **NOT** call itself.
If the answer is **NO**, then the function calls itself again.
That condition is also called the ***base condition*** or the ***stopping condition***.

So, we combine the *conditional statement* we'll use in the second step, the *Check* step, with the *function calling itself* step, finally creating the algorithm that solves the whole problem by solving the smaller versions of the problem and combining them.

The *function calling itself* part, is also described by the english term *recurse*, so in CS, this mechanism of writing an algorithm is called ***Recursion.***

### How does a function call itself
Let's see an example, in this case we'll write a function that calculates the factorial of a number.

A factorial of an integer n is the result of multiplying n by all the integers below it until 1, for example the factorial of 5 is 5x4x3x2x1 = 120, the factorial of 6 is 6x5x4x3x2x1 = 720.

As you can see, the factorial of 6 is basically *6 times the factorial of 5*, which is *5 times the factorial of four*, the factorial if the number *n* is *n* times the factorial of *n - 1*...oh hey, this mathematical function **can be divided into smaller versions of itself**,that's property number 1.

Also, we multiply by all the integers until we reach 1, so the factorial of 1 is 1, **that's our base condition**, property number 2.

We have property 1 and 2, we can use recursion here.

***Note:*** the factorial of a number is denoted by an exclamation mark following the number, for example the factorial of 5 is written as *5!*.

Let's write the algorithm in pseudocode first:
```
function factorial(integer i) {
    if i is equal to 1
        return 1
    else if i is greater than 1
        return i x factorial(i - 1)
}
```

Now, let's see this in C++ code:
``` C++
int factorial(int n) {
    if(n == 0) 
        return 1;
    return n * factorial(n - 1);
}
```

**Why use recursion?** <br/>
- The nature of some problems makes them very suitable for recursion, so it's easier to think in terms of recursion when dealing with some problems.
- Recursion saves our time since we write *less code* and *simpler algorithms*. That makes it a good technique for programming competitions and job interviews.

**Why won't we use recursion sometimes?** <br/>
When we call a function, all the local variables and the program address are pushed onto the stack, when we use recursion, this happens a lot, so this adds:
- Some memory issues as the stack is filled, causing the *StackOverFlow error* (This matters a lot in embedded systems).
- Some latency, using loops is more efficient (But not much, if you're using a LOT of recursion in your program, consider this, but if it's one or two, no problem).

Some industries restrict using recursion, like Embedded Systems, Game Development, High-performance Computing, etc.

**Some more examples of recursion** <br/>
Raising a number to a power:
**Expressing the problem in smaller versions of itself:** *2 to the power of 10* is just *2 x 2 to the power of 9*. So, *an integer n to the power of an integer p*, is just *n times n to the power of p-1*. 
**Base Condition:** if an integer is raised to power of 0, the result is 1.
**How will we reach the base condition:** by subtracting 1 from the power every call, until we reach 0.

In text:
``` 
function power(Integer i, Integer power) {
    if(n is equal to 0)
        return 1
}
```

In C++:
``` C++
int power(int a, int n) {
    if(n == 0)
        return 1;
    return a * power(a, n - 1);
}
```

**Wait, how does this work?** <br/>
Let's trace the C++ code for the example:
``` C++
power(2, 3);
```
Steps:
- power(2, 3) is called. 
- going into power(), passing 2 and 3: (first call)
    + check if 3 is equal to 0.
    + false, don't go in the conditional.
    + calculate 2 * power(2, 3-1) and return the result.
    + power(2, 2) is called.
    + going into power(), passing 2 and 2: (second call)
        - check if 2 is equal to 0.
        - false, don't go in the conditional.
        - calculate 2 * power(2, 2-1) and return the result.
        - power(2, 1) is called.
        - going into power(), passing 2 and 1: (third call)
            + check if 1 is equal to 0.
            + false, don't go in the conditional.
            + calculate 2 * power(2, 1-1) and return the result.
            + power(2, 0) is called.
            + going into power(), passing 2 and 0: (fourth call)
                - check if 0 is equal to 0.
                - *true* (that's our *base condition*), go into the conditional.
                - return 1;
            + returning from power(2, 0) with result 1.
            + calculating 2 * the result of power(2, 0), which is 1, results in 2.
            + return the value 2.
        - returning from power(2, 1) with result 2.
        - calculating 2 * the result of power(2, 1), which is 2, results in 4.
        - return the value 4.
    + returning from power(2, 2) with result 4.
    + calculating 2 * the result of power(2, 2), which is 4, results in 8.
    + return the value 8.
- returning from power(2, 3) with final value 8.

Which is correct, because *2 to the power of 3 is indeed equal to 8.* :smile:

**Another example** <br/>
Number of zero digits in an integer.
For example, the number 10300, it has three zeros, we need to get any number and count the zeros in it.
**Expressing the problem in smaller versions of itself:** the number 10300 is the number 1030 times 10, which is 103 times 10, the integer n is basically 10 times n/10, that won't work if n is smaller than 10 because it's an integer so no fractions, it will be floored to 0.
**Base Condition:** what we just said! when the number n is smaller than 10 i.e. it's only one digit, but here we have two cases:
    - If this one digit is 0: return 1. (The number of zeros in this current number)
    - Otherwise, return 0.
**How will we reach the base condition:** Divide by 10 each recursive call.

So, we need to check only the last digit on the right, then divide by 10 until we reach the base condition.

Here are the steps:
- To check the last digit on the right, We'll get the *remainder* of the current n by 10:
    + if it's 0 then the first digit is 0
        - We'll return 1 plus the rest of the zeros in the number.
        - Which we'll get by using recursive calls.
        - So, we'll return 1 + zeros(n / 10) 
    + else, it's not zero:
        - We won't add 1, we'll just get the recursive call's result.
        - We'll return zeros(n / 10)

In C++
``` C++
int zeros(int n) {
    if(n <= 9) {
        return 1;
    } else {
        return 0;
    }

    if( n % 10 == 0) {
        return 1 + zeros(n / 10);
    } else {
        return zeros(n / 10);
    }
}
```

We can also write it in a simpler way:
``` C++
int zeros(int n) {
    if(n <= 9) {
        return (n == 0); // returns true or false, which will be returned as integer, so 1 or 0
    }
    return (n % 10 == 0) + zeros(n / 10); // same concept
}
```

### Recursing and Containers
***Note:*** Containers: arrays, lists, all of that.

Finding an element in a container and return an index of that element between two indicies *start* and *end*:
**Expressing the problem in smaller versions of itself:** 
**Base Condition:** An empty array, just return the *end* index.
**How will we reach the base condition:** increase the index *start* in each recursive call, searching in smaller and smaller arrays until *start* reaches the index *end*, which is the base condition.

So,
- We will check if start = end:
    + If yes, return end.
    + Else, go on.
- We will check if the first element is what we're looking for:
    + If yes, return start.
    + Else, go on.
- We will return the result of recursive call on the array, but starting from the index just after *start*, i.e. *start + 1*.

In C++:
``` C++
int findItem(int a[], int start, int end, int val) {
    if(start == end)
        return end;
    if(a[start] == val) {
        return start;
    }
    return findItem(a, start + 1, end, val);
}
```
Seems weird, but once you get the hang of it, recursion will be very simple :smile:

### So how do we design a recursive algorithm
These are the general steps of designing a recursive algorithm:
1. Try to express the problem such that it is basically a combination of smaller versions of itself.
2. Define the base condition.
3. *Write* the base condition, like, in code, write the condition in the code.
4. Decide how will you reach this base condition.

***Note from Moamen:*** In my experience, recursive algorithms are easy to write and understand but hard to debug, if you have a good debugging tool you won't face problems, but I don't recommend using the stack trace to debug a recursion.

Done :sunglasses: <br/>
